# Data structure of Protocol Designer JSON in aspect of data handling
Not atempting to generate PY2JSON, but the JSON file will be the scaffold of collecting OT-2 control info, in CSV form, generated by dna-origami-db or by hand.
The nested level title represents nested hash key. The bullet list tells the data structure of lower layer, from which column of CSV file the date is copied from or the rule of data processing. 
#  root
## metadata
### protocolName
- copied from CSV file name
### author
- copied from metadata
### description
- copied from metadata
### created
- copied from metadata
- converted to millisecond timestamp
### lastmodified
- copied from metadata
- converted to millisecond timestamp
## designerApplication
- 3 item dict[various]
### name
- fixed value
- "opentrons/protocol-designer"
### version
- fixed value
- "6.2.2"
### data
- 8 item dict[various]
- mainly used to generate python protocol file
#### _internalAppBuildDate
- fixed value
- "Wed, 24 May 2023 14:36:44 GMT"
#### defaultValues
- 4 item dict[various]
##### aspirate_mmFromBottom
- fixed value
- 1
##### dispense_mmFromBottom
- fixed value
- 0.5
##### touchTip_mmFromTop
- fixed value
- -1
##### blowout_mmFromTop
- fixed value
- 0
#### pipetteTiprackAssignments
- dict[pipette UUID]
##### [pipette UUID]
- definitionId of tiprack, copied from 3rd column of CSV
- Add fixed prefix "opentrons/" and suffix "/1" to the string.
#### dismissedWarnings
- two item dict.
##### form
- leave blank
##### timeline
- leave blank
#### ingredients
- dict[liquidGroupId]
##### [liquidGroupId]
- 5 items dict[various]
###### name
- copied from 7th and 12th column of CSV
- Remove duplicate.
###### displayColor
- If the end of name is #xxxxxx style hex color code, copy to here
###### description
- null
###### serialize
- false
###### liquidGroupId
- liquidGroupId in serial integral number.
- Starting from 0.
- Identical as the key of this parent.
#### ingredLocations
- dict[LabwareId]
- Same as ## labware. UUID + ":" + "opentrons/" + 3rd and 8th column of CSV file + "/1"
- used to load liquid into labwares in protocol designer
##### [UUID:definitionId]
- dict[well name]
- copied from 
###### well name
- dict[liquidGroupId]
- copied from 5th and 10th column of CSV file.
####### volume
- copied from 6th and 11th column of CSV file
#### savedStepForms
- dict[step UUID, __INITIAL_DECK_SETUP_STEP__]
- initial deck setup is also used in loading
##### [__INITIAL_DECK_SETUP_STEP__]
- 5 items dict[various]
###### labwareLocationUpdate
- 8 items dict[UUID:definitionId], value: slot or UUID:ModuleType
##### [step UUID]
- various number items dict[various] depending on step type.
- Used in loading steps.
#### orderedStepIds
- list in order of execution
- UUID of steps

## robot
- dict[model/decId]
### model
### decId
## pipettes
- dict[UUID]
### name
- used to load pipette. Name format is e.g. p20_single_gen2
## labware
- dict[UUID:definitionId or fixedTrash]
- Used to load labware, by extracting second word of labware definition ID (e.g. opentrons_96_tiprack_20ul)
### displayName
### definitionId
## liquids
- dict[liquid serial]
- Used to load liquid (≥API 2.14)
### displayName
### description
### displayColor
## labwareDefinitions
- dict[definitionId]
- labware definition ID is in strange format like opentrons/opentrons_96_tiprack_20ul/1
- Some difinition is used in calculation
  ### ordering
  ### brand
  ### metadata
  ### dimensions
  ### wells
  ### groups
  ### parameters
  ### namespace
  ### version
  ### schemaVersion
  ### cornerOffsetFromSlot
## $otSharedSchema
## schemaVersion
## modules
- dict[UUID] of module model
- UUID key, dict value
- Used to load modules
### [UUID]
#### model
## commands
- list of command dict.
- used in current pdjson2py
